as Ralph Waldo Emerson said do not go
where the path may lead go instead where
there is no path and leave a trail it's
never going to make sense it's never
going to be obvious you're never going
to walk out your door and see the
obvious way that you want to go and if
you do it's a trap if you do go down the
path that's already laid for you it's
going to take you to all the
destinations that are already known it's
going to take you to all of the places
that instinct drove the people before
you but if you want to go somewhere
unique if you want to go somewhere that
only you would go if you want to create
something new and really live a life
that was meant for you because it's
literally crafted by you you have to
take the first steps on faith and as
Rumi said as you start to walk out on
the way the way appears so as you're
looking at the choices that are before
you where you've got a path that's well
trodden you've got a path that literally
is invisible and won't become something
until you step on it you have to
understand that that's what this life is
meant to be and that the only
frustration that you will look back on
with tremendous regret is knowing that
you did what was easy even though it
wasn't you there's some mechanism inside
of us there's something that wants us to
walk a path that's never been walked
before and the thing that makes it so
hard is right now inside of you is a
desperate desire for that to be easy but
it's not going to be easy it's going to
be hard you're going to pale you're
going to stumble you're going to fall on
your faith and thank God because there's
Muhammad Ali said only a man who knows
what it's like to be defeated can reach
down to the bottom of his soul and come
up with the extra ounce of power it
takes to win when the matches either
so what you have to ask yourself is what
do you want do you want it to be easy do
you want the path to be well warm or do
you want the past to be yours
do you want to know that inside of you
is something that you can reach into and
grab and it will be there at the moment
that you most need it but you want to
know that you're that type of person
because if you do you have to be willing
to walk the path that doesn't exist you
have to be willing to tread through the
brambles you have to be willing to fall
because it is in that process of failure
and pain and agony and suffering that
you will become that's the process that
will make you use that's the process
that will shake you it's the suffering
that gives you a reserve to draw when
you leave the note when you ask for
safety when you asked for II know that
you're saying a prayer for weakness and
when you take the hard way know that
you're forging yourself when you make
those demands know that you're building
a reserve tank that will be there at the
moment when you need it when you walk
the path that only you can walk
know that you're living the life that
you were meant to live and that my
friends is how you become the you worth
becoming
[Music]
[Applause]